{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\upr{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f3\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 02000500000000000000}Symbol;}
{\f4\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 02000500000000000000}Times;}}{\*\ud{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f3\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 02000500000000000000}Symbol;}
{\f4\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 02000500000000000000}Times;}}}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\widctlpar\adjustright 
\loch\af4\hich\af4\dbch\f4\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid66569\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc23\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext
\'01\u-3913 _;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\fbias0 \fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname ;}\listid1}{\list\listtemplateid0\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc23\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat0\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\u-3913 _;}{\levelnumbers;}
\f3\fbias0 \fi-720\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}{\list\listtemplateid0\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc23\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat96\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\u-3913 _;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\fbias0 \fi-720\li720
\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}{\list\listtemplateid0\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc23\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat96\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\u-3913 _;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\fbias0 \fi-720\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listname 
;}\listid4}{\list\listtemplateid0\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc23\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat96\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\u-3913 _;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\fbias0 \fi-720\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listname ;}\listid5}
{\list\listtemplateid0\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc23\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat96\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\u-3913 _;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\fbias0 \fi-720\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listname ;}\listid6}{\list\listtemplateid0
\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc23\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat96\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\u-3913 _;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\fbias0 \fi-720\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listname ;}\listid7}{\list\listtemplateid0\listsimple{\listlevel
\levelnfc23\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat0\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\u-3913 _;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\fbias0 \fi-720\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listname ;}\listid8}{\list\listtemplateid0\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc23\leveljc0\levelfollow0
\levelstartat96\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\u-3913 _;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\fbias0 \fi-720\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listname ;}\listid9}{\list\listtemplateid984073\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0
\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname ;}\listid10}{\list\listtemplateid0\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext
\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-720\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listname ;}\listid11}}{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}
{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}{\listoverride\listid5\listoverridecount0\ls5}{\listoverride\listid6\listoverridecount0\ls6}{\listoverride\listid7\listoverridecount0\ls7}{\listoverride\listid8\listoverridecount0\ls8}{\listoverride\listid9
\listoverridecount0\ls9}{\listoverride\listid10\listoverridecount0\ls10}{\listoverride\listid11\listoverridecount0\ls11}}{\info{\title The Booster League}{\author Michelle Nephew}{\operator Michelle Nephew}{\creatim\yr2004\mo12\dy15\hr15\min56}
{\revtim\yr2004\mo12\dy15\hr15\min56}{\version2}{\edmins1}{\nofpages10}{\nofwords3007}{\nofchars17141}{\*\company Atlas Games}{\nofcharsws21050}{\vern115}}\margl1080\margr1080 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\formshade\viewkind4\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot \fet0\sectd \linex-32767\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\widctlpar\adjustright \loch\af4\hich\af4\dbch\f4\cgrid {\fs96\cf1 \hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 Anatomy of Effects and Events
\par }{\fs32\cf1 
\par 
\par }{\b\fs32\cf1 \hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 Notes about this document}{\fs32\cf1 
\par 
\par 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 This document has been prepared to explain the timing and applications of cards and their effects in ON THE EDGE. The intention is to provide a few simple and understandable schemes which can reso\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 
lve some of the more obscure and vexing rules questions that sometimes arise. Readers should be aware that the issues detailed in this document are meant to address rules questions which have arisen slowly over the months since ON THE EDGE was released in
\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0  \hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 
1994; many players may find the discussions below unnecessary for conducting their normal game play. As always, members of the ON THE EDGE community are encouraged to play the game -- their game -- in the fashion that they find most enjoyable; if you find
\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0  \hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 the material here too abstract or erudite, or just plain confusing, just blame me, feel free to ignore this document, and have fun the way you know best how to! With those provisions out of the way.. 

\par 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 ------------------------------------------------------\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 ------------------
\par 
\par }{\b\fs32\cf1 \hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 Anatomy of an Event}{\fs32\cf1 
\par 
\par 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 There is an established sequence for all events that happen in ON THE EDGE, whether the event is calling or playing a card, playing a card effect, or combat between two Characters. Understanding this sequence will 
\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 allow us to make shorter work of some of the questions which arise on a somewhat frequent basis. Considered in four steps, the sequence is as follows: 
\par 
\par }\pard \li720\widctlpar\adjustright {\fs32\cf1 \hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 Step 1: Either a player announces that they are playing or calling a card, or a player announces that\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 
 they are playing a card effect, or a player announces that one of their Characters is attacking another Character. The player must perform any functions required to initiate or announce the event, functions such as paying Pull points from her Reserve, pl
\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 a\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 cing a card into a legal or appropriate position in a Conspiracy or in play, discarding a no Cost Whammy, or cranking a card or Character at this time. 
\par 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 Step 2: Other cards have a chance either to affect that card, or to affect that card effect, or to u\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 se any card effects which pertain to the period "before combat." This happens }{\i\fs32\cf1 
\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 before}{\fs32\cf1 \hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0  the card can take effect, or before the card effect can, or before combat actually begins. 
\par 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 [This step 2 is a more general restatement of the part of the section on "Effe\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 
ct Timing" in "Effects and Abilities" which reads: "Once an effect (like a Whammy or a Character's special ability) is used, the other players have an opportunity to affect that effect. You must give your opponents time to respond to each action, and time
\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0  \hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 to consider responding, if they request it. For instance, if you play Blackmail (a Whammy), other players have a chance to affect that card before it takes effect" (SVH, pg. 39).] 
\par 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 Step 3: Either the card takes effect, or the card effect does, or the co\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 
mbat has begun and is able to be resolved. Players can now perform any functions which the card, card effect, or outcome of combat require, such as cranking or flipping any other cards or Characters, discarding a card or Character that has been popped, re
\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 c\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 ording any change in their Influence Score, and so on. 
\par 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 Step 4: }{\i\fs32\cf1 \hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 Until}{\fs32\cf1 \hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0  another card, card effect, or combat is played, called, or announced, other cards }{\i\fs32\cf1 \hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 still}{
\fs32\cf1 \hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0  have a chance either to affect the played or called card, to affect the card effect, or to infl\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 uence the outcome of the combat. 
\par }{\b\fs32\cf1 \hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 At this point, additional responses may have become appropriate, due to the fact that the card played or called, or the card effect played, or the combat has actually begun. 
\par }{\fs32\cf1 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 An event is finally concluded only when a subse\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 
quent card, card effect, or combat has been played, called, or announced; however, "You must give your opponents time to respond to each action, and time to consider responding, if they request it" (SVH, pg. 39). (By "subsequent card, card effect, or comb
\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 a\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 t," we mean an event or action which is not in direct response to the current event.) 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\fs32\cf1 
\par 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 Now, this sequence of events is }{\i\fs32\cf1 \hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 recursive}{\fs32\cf1 \hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 
, as follows. If during any current event a player plays or calls a card or plays a card effect directed towards the current e\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 
vent, the new event itself enters a new iteration of the sequence itself. That is, the new card or card effect cannot take effect until all players are done responding to the new card or card effect. The first current event is still "on hold" while the pl
\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 a\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 
yers are stepping through the sequence for the second current event, and only when the second current event has passed through its iteration of the sequence (not counting any further responses to this, the second current event, and the iterations of the s
\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 e\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 quence required for those further responses) can the first current event be further responded to or be resolved (if this is still possible). 
\par 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 Since "Later-played effects take precedence over earlier- played effects" (SVH, pg. 39), it is possible for an ef\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 
fect in response to a current event to change, cancel, or even make the current event impossible retroactively. In these latter cases, when the response either cancels or makes a current event impossible, the players should consider that event itself not 
\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 t\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 o have taken place; any responses to that event, however, }{\i\fs32\cf1 \hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 should}{\fs32\cf1 \hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 
 be considered to have taken place. For example, Harmattan reads, "Crank any time to cancel any Character's action as it is declared. The Character is cranked, but the action never takes place\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 
." When this ability is used, whatever action the target Character was to perform does not happen, but (obviously) Harmattan's response does happen. Another example would be if a player responded to a Sabotage Whammy by playing a Counter-Intelligence Wham
\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 m\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 y. In this case, both Whammies would be discarded, but the Resource the Sabotage would have targeted remains in play. 
\par 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 Unless a card says otherwise, a "canceled" card, card effect, or action loses its effect, but the functions required to announce the eve\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 
nt are retained. On the other hand, let's imagine that Isil Ziya attacks Bitter & Herb, and that the defending player plays a Good Luck Whammy on Bitter & Herb. The attacking player may pay one Pull to give Isil the trait "Mutant." Since Bitter & Herb can
\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 n\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 
ot be attacked by Mutants, the combat would then become retroactively impossible. In that case, Isil uncranks and her player has the option of launching a different attack against the same Conspiracy, since she's considered never to have attacked in the f
\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 i\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 
rst place; however, both the Good Luck Whammy and the use of Isil's special ability are considered to have been played. So the Good Luck Whammy is discarded and the one Pull is expended, and Bitter & Herb has one additional Power until the start of the ne
\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 x\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 t player's turn while Isil has the trait "Mutant" until the start of the same player's next turn. 
\par 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 Finally, cards or card effects which do not "pertain" to the announced event do not cause a recursion of the above event sequence -- i.e., they cannot come \hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 
between the card being played and its taking effect, or they "cannot come between the effect being played and its being resolved" (SVH, pg. 38), or between the combat being announced and its final outcome being determined. By "pertain," we mean either to 
\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 a\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 ffect the card being played or called in any way, or to cancel a card effect, or to influence or cancel or prevent a combat; }{\b\fs32\cf1 \hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 
after step 3, "pertain" can also mean to affect the card or cards which the announced card or card effect is now affecting, or to i\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 nfluence the combat with any card effects which do not pertain to the period "before combat."}{
\fs32\cf1 \hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0  
\par 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 [It should be obvious that an additional combat cannot pertain to a current combat, that is, an additional comparison of an attacker's AP to a defender's DP can\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 
not pertain to a current comparison of AP to DP -- simply put, combats are not candidates for a recursion of the event sequence. As always, of course, additional Characters may Gang Up to join a current combat, and this is not considered to be an addition
\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 a\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 l combat. But I don't think I really needed to say that, did I? :) ] 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 ------------------------------------------------------------------------
\par 
\par }{\b\fs32\cf1 \hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 Anatomy of an Effect}{\fs32\cf1 
\par 
\par 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 A well-known passage in the Rules of Play concerning effects has shown the potential for \hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 
raising confusion on the matter -- "Effects have two possible durations: continual and one-turn" (SVH, pg. 36). It is obvious, however, that some effects do not precisely fall under this scheme. In addition, the manner in which the Rules of Play distingui
\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 s\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 
hes the various forms and durations of effects deserves some explanation. Understating the distinctions between effects with also help resolve some outstanding questions that have been raised. We can distinguish between }{\i\fs32\cf1 
\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 three}{\fs32\cf1 \hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0  types of durations of effects,\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0  as follows: 
\par 
\par 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\fs32\cf1\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\f4 \hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 1.\tab}}\pard \fi-720\li720\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx720{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls11\pnrnot0\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls11\adjustright {\fs32\cf1 
\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 "Continual" effects, which always have a card or marker which serves as an unambiguous reminder of the card effect. 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\fs32\cf1\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\f4 \hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 2.\tab}}\pard \fi-720\li720\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx720{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls11\pnrnot0\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls11\adjustright {\fs32\cf1 
\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 "One-turn" effects, which require players to remember that the card effect is in force for a period of time. The peri\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 
od most always lasts until the start of the next player's turn. Sometimes, however, the period specified is longer than one turn, such as until the start of the same player's next turn. 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\fs32\cf1\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\f4 \hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 3.\tab}}\pard \fi-720\li720\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx720{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls11\pnrnot0\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls11\adjustright {\fs32\cf1 
\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 "Occasional" effects, which either instruct players to take some a\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 ction or perform some task, or which are prescribed for some period of time shorter than until the start of the next player's turn. 

\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\fs32\cf1 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 We will first explain the distinction between the continual and one-turn effects, and then explain the necessity for and d\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 istinction of what we are calling the occasional effects. 
\par 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 The difference between the continual and one-turn effects comes from the statement in the section on "Effect Duration" in "Effects & Abilities," which says, "A continual effect always has a card o\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 
r marker of some kind to indicate that it is in effect" (SVH, pg. 36). Let's explain this by examining some different types of cards and their effects. Conditions are the clearest example of card having continual effects; however, it's important to note t
\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 h\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 
at not all effects of Conditions are continual effects. Whereas, say, the effect of the Trident Morale Condition which increases the Power of the Character it is on by one is indicated by the presence of the Condition, the effect of Negative Energy Condit
\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 i\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 
on which reduces an enemy combatant's Power by five is not indicated by the presence of the Condition. That is to say: the effect of Trident Morale is a continual effect, and the effect of Negative Energy is a one-turn effect, even though both are Conditi
\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 o\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 ns (as described on pages 36-38 of the SVH). 
\par 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 Unlike Conditions, the effects of Gear are generally one- turn. The section on "Gear" in the "Types of Cards" does not describe a Gear as a lasting change to a card in play, as the section on "Condition" does.
\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 
 Instead, we are specifically told that "A player may always decide to have a Character not use a Gear" (SVH, pg. 16). This, then, is the difference between Gear and Conditions. Because a player decides, turn after turn, whether their Character will or wi
\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 l\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 
l not use Gear on the Character, the various effects of the Gear are _not indicated_ by the presence of the Gear. That is, since a Gear does not serve as a reminder of its effect -- as the rules demand for continual effects -- the effects it generates are
\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0  \hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 generally one-turn effects. 
\par 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 For example, the effect of the Dark Aura Ring Gear which reduces the Power of enemy combatants by one is not indicated by the presence of the Gear. If an attacker with a Dark Aura Ring Surprises a defender, and both Characters
\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 
 survive the combat, the players then need to remember that the defender has lost one Power until the start of the next player's turn. This is the case even if one of the players were to pop the Dark Aura Ring with an Astral Flux after the combat. This is
\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0  \hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 the same situation we saw above with the Negative Energy Condition, which even though discarded has its effect retained until the start of the next player's turn. 
\par 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 More generally, the effects of Gear which affect the Character the Gear resides on are stil\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 
l usually one-turn effects. For example, the section on "Psychovore" in the "Specific Card Questions" of the FAQ says, "Say the player controlling the Character decides to have the Character use the Gear. After that happens, the Character will be Immune: 
\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 A\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 stral until the end of the turn" (SOnTE, pg. 182). If the Gear is popped by an Astral Flux, this effect does not depart until the start of the next player's turn, because it is a one-turn effect. 

\par 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 It's helpful to think about the overall question in the fo\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 
llowing terms: "Can I tell, by noting the presence of a given card in play, whether or not a specific effect of that card is in operation?" In the case of most Conditions, the answer is, "Yes, I can see, because this Character has this Condition on it, th
\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 a\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 
t the Condition is affecting the Character," and thus the effect is a continual effect. In the case of most Gear, the answer becomes, "No, I can't see, because the Character's player has the option every turn for the Character not to use the Gear," and th
\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 u\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 s the effect is a one-turn effect. 
\par 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 Again, just as some Conditions can break the general rule and have a one-turn effect, some Gear can also break the rules and exert a Continual effect. The same distinction is used: whether or not the players can tell, b
\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 
y the presence of the card, whether the effect is or is not in force. For example, the Paralytic Banana says, "Unless cranked, the player must attack highest-DP legal target." As has been previously ruled, the presence of the word "must" means that a play
\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 e\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 
r loses the option not to use the Gear; the players can therefore tell, by noticing the presence of the Paralytic Banana on a Character, that the effect is in operation. _This makes its effect continual_, which allows a player to dispense with the effect 
\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 b\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 efore the end of a turn by popping the Gear; for example, a player may pop the Gear by playing an Unexpected Difficulties while Oil Pan Annie is in play. 
\par 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 Notice once again the relevant distinction here. The Rules of Play expand on the idea of continual e\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 
ffects as follows: "For instance, a Condition that gives a Character +1 Power is continual; it lasts as long as the Condition is in play" (SVH, pg. 36-37). This also means that as soon as the Condition -- or the card which serves as an unambiguous reminde
\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 r\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 
 of some effect -- leaves play, the continual effect loses force. To repeat this idea once again, let's examine yet another type of card. The Genetic Prejudice Environmental affects all Mutants, causing them to lose one DP. The mere presence of this card 
\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 s\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 
erves as a reminder of its effect, and so if the Environmental is popped by a Status Quo, the continual effect will depart. On the other hand, the Aura of Evil Environmental must be cranked to boost the Power of an (arbitrary) Compton by two. It's obvious
\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0  \hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 
that the mere presence of the Aura of Evil, even if cranked, does not serve as a reminder of this effect; instead, the players have to remember that, say, J.S. Rocket's power has been boosted. A Status Quo which pops the Aura of Evil after this effect of 
\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 i\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 ts has been used will not cause the one-turn effect to depart. 
\par 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 [Note also that all this goes to the heart of what the designers of the game intended by separating overall effects into continual and one-turn effects. Some effects are supposed to stick aro\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 
und, and for these effects cards (or sometimes markers) need to be deployed to serve as memory- free indicators of their presence. Such effects can depart before the end of a turn, since various other effects can remove their indicators. On the other hand
\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 ,\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 
 other effects are not supposed to stick around, either because their permanence would upset game balance, or maintaining their indicators would be too troublesome, or for other reasons. Being freed from having to maintain indicators of these (one-turn) e
\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 f\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 fects, players are instead asked to remember that they remain in force until the end of the turn, or until the end of the round.] 
\par 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 However, there are some card effects which do not reside either in the continual or the one-turn classes. Players should not\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 
 assume, on the basis of the "Effects have two possible durations.." quote, that all effects necessarily fall into this dual scheme. Just as some rules and some card texts can "break the rules" to have specific effects contrary to the general schemes, som
\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 e\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 
 effects which are not continual can be prescribed for periods of time less than that until the start of the next player's turn. In general, these are effects which specifically say they apply to some specific circumstance, or else effects which instruct 
\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 p\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 
layers to take some action or perform some task (as opposed to instructing players to note some change in Power, traits, or special abilities, for examples). Since a name for this class of effects is lacking, we should probably invent one; the name I am u
\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 s\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 ing in this document is "occasional," as in "occasional effects." 
\par 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 The simplest example of an occasional effect is an effect, such as Portia's special ability, which instructs a player to crank some other card. The Character (in Portia's case) which is cr\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 
anked is cranked only once; this should by no means be considered a "one-turn" effect, so that if uncranked, the Character would somehow "keep on cranking" until the end of the turn. This might be clearer if we consider Ricardo Martinez's "Crank to uncran
\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 k\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 
 any Character" ability -- it's powerful enough that Ricardo can uncrank a Character with Pull to allow it to crank twice, but the game would be broken to the point of infinite Influence if the Character "keep on uncranking" until the end of the turn! The
\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0  \hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 game, however, is not broken, as long as we remember the distinction we're describing as "occasional" effects. 
\par 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 Let's consider some examples. A number of Secrets have special abilities such as the Gladstines' Secret's "Crank any time to add +1 to an attac\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 
k on a Gladstine." Obviously enough, this effect has its timing and circumstances delimited to a scope shorter than until the start of the next player's turn. The effect can only be used during a current combat, and it departs when that combat is conclude
\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 d\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 
. We can therefore think of it as an occasional effect. In the same way, any effect which specifically describes its duration can effectively break the general "Effects have two possible durations" rule, just as any effect can break any other general rule
\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 .\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0  
\par 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 
A further example, and one which has caused a significant amount of confusion, involves the Control ability. The section on "Control" in the "Ability Descriptions" of the Rules of Play defines the ability as follows: "Crank an active Character of anothe
\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 
r player, making the Character act as if its player were controlling it on that player's turn" (SVH, pg. 41). While the timing or circumstances are not prescribed as in the preceding example, it is the case that the ability instructs players to do somethi
\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 n\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 g other than to note some change in Power, traits, special abilities, or so on. Just as Portia's ability does not cause a Character to "keep on cranking," the Control ability does }{\i\fs32\cf1 
\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 not}{\fs32\cf1 \hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0  cause the opponent's Character to "keep on being Controlled" until the s\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 
tart of the next player's turn. If some other effect uncranks a Character which had already been Controlled that turn, the Character remains under the (lower-case c) control of their usual player. Again, any effect which instructs players to call, discard
\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 ,\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0  crank, uncrank, flip, move, or otherwise do something }{\i\fs32\cf1 \hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 with}{\fs32\cf1 \hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 a card (as opposed to doing something }{\i\fs32\cf1 
\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 to}{\fs32\cf1 \hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0  a card such as noting some change as if the printed text of the card had been updated) should be considered as an occasional effect. Such effects happen, an\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 
d then depart, their specific circumstances having passed. 
\par 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 Players should take care to note that even if an occasional effect may have itself departed from the scene, the source of the effect may remain. If a Mutation Condition is played on a Mutant Char\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 
acter, the effect that pops the Mutant is an occasional effect. The Character may be Saved, and one instance of the occasional effect answered, but the Condition will remain to generate another (and another, as long as necessary) "occasional" popping effe
\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 c\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 
t. As many times as the Character is Saved, they will still be popped as long as they are still a Mutant and the Condition remains. In distinction, Ravage's special ability only creates a single, occasional effect; a Character Saved from Ravage's ability 
\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 w\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 ill survive (for the time being, at least). 
\par 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 [And finally, to tie this to the event sequence discussed above, if any subsequent card, card effect, or action comes after an occasional effect, the occasional effect cannot be affected; it can, of course, be 
\hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 reversed through a complementary effect or action.] }{
\par }}